i'm dan ackerman and we are here taking
a very first look at the latest version
of apple's 13-inch macbook air now
physically from the outside you open up
the box this looks a heck of a lot like
the previous macbook air and in fact
physically it's pretty much the same box
except this guy has a backlit keyboard
something that was in the original air
mission from the second generation now
back here again and the other big
changes i'm going to show you right here
on the side this display port jack right
here in the back is now a thunderbolt
compatible jack so that you can hook up
a display to it but you can also hook up
thunderbolt peripherals if you happen to
run across any there a couple of hard
drives and Apple is going to have a
really nice-looking big laptop oriented
monitor later on in the summer that you
can actually connect this directly to
and that's going to have an ethernet
port and a firewire and some other
Jack's that through that single
Thunderbolt connection you can all
access from your laptop under the hood
the biggest change with this latest
generation of macbook air systems is the
move from Intel's Core 2 Duo CPUs to the
latest second generation core i series
that's a two-generation leap for the
processor you've got core i5 in the 11
inch and the 13 inch macbooks and in
both of those you can actually upgrade
to the faster core i7 processors these
are all the low voltage versions and
you've got to start with the more
expensive upgraded base models for both
of those in order to get that core i7
processor as it is just start out with a
128 gig solid-state drive in the 13 inch
version and 4 gigs of ram you can
upgrade that to a 256 gig solid-state
drive which should be big enough for
just about everybody once you start
doing that your macbook air can get a
little bit expensive we've still got the
same 16 x 10 display they haven't moved
to 16 by 9 yet on the 13 inch models the
big gigantic multitrack touchpad is the
same they have however added for the OS
10 lion operating system upgrade that
comes with this
a bunch of new gestures that took this
little while to get used to but a bunch
of them are actually pretty useful and
you're going to have to train yourself
to use those instead of some of the
previous versions of these multi-touch
gestures so here's a quick peek at some
of the new gestures are going to have to
get used to in order to use a new
macbook air or really any mac laptop
that has the OS 10 lion operating system
upgrade the two finger scroll still work
still works really great going up and
down web pages now in order to move a
window around it used to double tap here
and move it much like you would on a
windows pc now you just take three
fingers and then you can move your
windows around very easily just like
that the four finger gesture still gives
you a big overview they call this a
mission control view now and shows you
all the different apps you have open and
lets you set up alternative desktops the
biggest change for me was getting back
to your desktop you pick your thumb and
three fingers and then you pinched out
from there and that exposed to your
desktop you reverse that to go back the
other way and you do that reverse again
and that takes you to what they call the
launch pad which looks very much like
your iOS your iPad or iPhone collection
of apps and these are all the apps that
either come pre-installed or you get
through the apple app store and then you
just pinch the other way to get back to
your regular desktop so following the
traditional Apple upgrade cycle what
they've done is they've kept the price
is the same 1299 and 1599 for the two
different base models of the 13-inch
macbook air while upgrading the
components inside most notably of course
that core i5 processor and the
Thunderbolt port i'm dan ackerman and
that is Apple's new 13-inch MacBook Air